.. =============================================================================
..
.. ztd.vargs
.. Copyright © 2021 JeanHeyd "ThePhD" Meneide and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC
.. Contact: opensource@soasis.org
..
.. Commercial License Usage
.. Licensees holding valid commercial ztd.vargs licenses may use this file in
.. accordance with the commercial license agreement provided with the
.. Software or, alternatively, in accordance with the terms contained in
.. a written agreement between you and Shepherd's Oasis, LLC.
.. For licensing terms and conditions see your agreement. For
.. further information contact opensource@soasis.org.
..
.. Apache License Version 2 Usage
.. Alternatively, this file may be used under the terms of Apache License
.. Version 2.0 (the "License") for non-commercial use; you may not use this
.. file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
.. License at
..
.. 		https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
..
.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.
..
.. =============================================================================>

Microsoft Visual C++ - x64
==========================

The VC++ x64_86 implementation relies on the System V ABI that Microsoft uses for it's calling convention, particularl for it's Variable Argument functions. It lays out much of it's details in two documents:

- `x64 Calling Conventions <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/x64-calling-convention?view=msvc-170>`_
- `x64 Stack Usage <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/stack-usage?view=msvc-170>`_

As the storage in registers in fickle, we explicitly rely on 2 things to keep work going: 

1. an intrinsic from ``<intrin.h>`` called ``_AddressofReturnAddress()``; and,
2. the fact that we can use assembler to access registers that get spilled to the stack.

The second is not necessarily guaranteed: highly-optimized Variable Argument function calls do **not** spill values to the stack. But in general, registers documented such as ``rcx`` and ``rdx`` are frequently used when any amount of work is done inside of these functions, and that causes the stack to immediately "re-home" the values in those registers to (8-byte aligned) places just above the address of the return address (e.g., what we will use as our stack pointer to walk the stack for arguments).

.. note:: *💡 Observed (But Not Documented)*

	In testing, any usage of ``ztdc_va_list`` and ``ztdc_va_start`` within a Variable Argument function triggered the register rehoming. This allowed us to get at the arguments that were previously in registers that were both in practice and in documentation too widely reused, too volatile, and too hot to reliably extract.
		
Note that simply walking the stack is not 100% effective, even with stack re-homing: floating point arguments are not typically re-homed in the Microsoft System V ABI, and therefore must be accessed directly in their registers ``xmm0`` through ``xmm3`` for the corresponding to the first 4 arguments.

- For the first 4 arguments:
	- Non-floating point types including integers, aggregates (``std::is_aggregate_v`` and all C types) with ``sizeof(Type) <= 8``; ``rcx``, ``rdx``, ``r8``, and ``r9``. Re-homed to locations ``rsp + 8``, ``rsp + 16``, ``rsp + 24``, ``rsp + 32``, ``rsp`` representing the address from ``_AddressofReturnAddress()``.
	- Floating point types, ``float`` and ``half``, and all ``__mNN`` types up to ``__m64``: ``xmm0``, ``xmm1``, ``xmm2``, ``xmm3``. Not re-homed to anywhere on the stack reliably.
	- All other values are turned into pointers, and those pointer values are stored in the ``rcx``, ``rdx``, ``r8``, and ``r9`` (and re-homed).
- For each argument after:
	- Stored on the stack from ``rsp + 40`` onwards, regardless of whether or not any registers are re-homed. The way they are stored follows the above: direct values for all types that are ``sizeof(T) <= 8``, and pointers to said values for anything else.

.. warning::

	There seem to be alignment issues on Windows that are not clearly explained in the documentation. ``rsp`` and the "rehomed" space may not be aligned properly, despite the documentation stating that non-leaf (framed) functions must be aligned properly. It is hard to get it to keep the data in the right place and occasionally seems to produce data pointers in the rehomed and and other stack pointer places that are not where they are expected to be.

A cheap check for knowing if you have walked off the edge of the stack is testing if the pointer value for any stack values is greater than the address of the ``ztdc_va_list`` list. This can be done as an assert (which can be turned off in Release builds by-default).

``float`` types are automatically promoted to ``double``, and so if a person requests ``float`` it must be converted to ``double`` first and then explicitly downcast within the platform's implementation of ``ztdc_va_next``.
